‎Have you ever heard
‎a brother pray to Jehovah
‎and it just sort of touches your heart
‎—the words he uses
‎and his mannerisms and so forth?
‎And you may say to yourself,
‎‘Well, I wish I could talk to Jehovah like that.’
‎Well, maybe the way you talk to Jehovah
‎is not like that.
‎You may not have
‎all those words to use, and so forth,
‎due to a lack of education
‎when it comes
‎to the English language, and so forth,
‎but what you do have is in your heart.
‎And when you pour your heart out to Jehovah,
‎he hears you and he blesses you
‎just like he would bless
‎the one who has all the words
‎and the good mannerisms, and so forth.
‎So don’t worry about it.
‎Just pray to Jehovah from your heart.
‎It’s not the words that he’s that interested in;
‎it’s what comes out of the heart.
‎So, no doubt,
‎you are just as close to Jehovah
‎as that one that you admire.
‎And there’s certainly nothing wrong
‎with admiring a brother
‎who has that ability, or a sister.
‎But don’t worry about it;
‎that is not the main thing that Jehovah looks at.
‎Your approach has to come from the heart,
‎and if it does, it pleases Jehovah.
‎Notice something
‎here in the Bible at 1 Samuel 16:7.
‎It says:
‎“But Jehovah said to Samuel:
‎“‘Do not pay attention
‎to his appearance and how tall he is,
‎“‘for I have rejected him.
‎“‘For the way man sees
‎  is not the way God sees,
‎“‘because mere man sees
‎   what appears to the eyes,
‎but Jehovah sees into the heart.’”
‎That’s a beautiful scripture,
‎and it is one that humbles us before Jehovah.
‎We’re glad that he looks at our heart,
‎and we certainly want him to do that.
‎I’d like to tell you about something.
‎It has to do with a brother, an older brother,
‎years ago in one of the circuits I had.
‎And we were at the dinner table.
‎His wife wasn’t in the truth,
‎but she prepared a fine meal for us.
‎He was a fine brother
‎—elder in the congregation.
‎And it got around to:
‎“What did you do before you got the truth?
‎What kind of work did you do?”
‎and so forth.
‎And he said,
‎“I was a professional brother who prayed.”
‎He said, “The preachers in our town hired me
‎to go to their churches on Sunday and pray.”
‎He said:
‎“I had the ability to use right words.
‎“And my deep voice and mannerism
‎“just caused them
‎to reach deep into their billfolds
‎“and pocketbooks and give money.
‎“So afterward, the preachers
‎would divvy it up and pay me off.
‎“So I made quite a bit of money that way
‎—‘professional prayer.’”
‎Well, of course, he got the truth,
‎and he learned that that business was no good,
‎but he still could pray and reach the heart.
‎And that’s what prayer is all about, isn’t it?
‎Our text today
‎deals with drawing close to Jehovah.
‎And one of the main ways that we
‎draw close to Jehovah is through prayer.
‎Whether we’re on our knees
‎or standing or lying down, it matters not.
‎Jehovah still hears.
‎Silent prayers he hears.
‎We can pray as we’re driving the automobile
‎or doing anything else,
‎and he hears our prayers
‎if they come out of the heart.
‎And, of course,
‎we have to pray in the right way.
‎Years ago, we had a program
‎out in the traveling work
‎called “New Things Learned.”
‎Now, we changed that later on
‎to “Continue in the Things That You Learned.”
‎But at this particular time,
‎it was “New Things Learned.”
‎And I was a circuit overseer,
‎so I had the program on a Saturday evening
‎—“New Things Learned.”
‎One of my questions was,
‎“When you pray to Jehovah,
‎“do you go through Jesus at the beginning
‎“or during your prayer or at the end,
‎or does it matter?”
‎Well, we got all kinds of answers.
‎I tell you the truth.
‎You wouldn’t believe it if you were there
‎—all kinds of answers!
‎So anyway, we finally gave them
‎the correct answer, and so forth.
‎At the end of the meeting,
‎I called on an older brother
‎(very fine brother in the truth) to pray.
‎And he prayed to Jesus.
‎I said,
‎“Brother, why did you pray to Jesus?”
‎He said:
‎“I didn’t know who to pray to.
‎I was so confused.”
‎So Gloria, my wife, said,
‎“Please, don’t use that
‎on the ‘New Things Learned’ anymore.”
‎But that was truly a new thing learned.
‎‘We just hope you unlearned it, congregation.’
‎Anyway, we feel that
‎that prayer was heard by Jehovah.
‎He takes into consideration who we are,
‎what we have to give,
‎and how we can do it, and so forth.
‎But we wouldn’t practice a thing like that.
‎We wouldn’t deliberately ignore him
‎and pray to Jesus; that’s for sure.
‎But prayer is necessary.
‎We’re really not qualified to judge
‎whether the prayers of our brothers
‎are received favorably by Jehovah or not.
‎Some words come
‎from the brain and out of the mouth,
‎while others come
‎from the heart and out of the mouth.
‎We ask ourselves,
‎‘Am I speaking to Jehovah from my heart
‎or only from my brain?’
‎When we speak to Jehovah,
‎we want to use truthful words
‎that come from the heart
‎—words “seasoned with salt,”
‎the Bible tells us,
‎“gracious,”
‎words that are in good taste,
‎respectful,
‎and wholesome.
‎Job’s short prayer came from the heart
‎at Job 1:21
‎—just a real short prayer—
‎but Jehovah heard it.
‎And, of course,
‎he was with Job all the way.
‎If he hadn’t been with Job,
‎Job would have had a hard time,
‎wouldn’t he, worse than he had?
‎But here’s his prayer.
‎He said:
‎“Naked I came out of my mother’s womb,
‎“and naked I will return.
‎“Jehovah has given,
‎and Jehovah has taken away.
‎“Let the name of Jehovah
‎continue to be praised.”
‎Beautiful, isn’t it?
‎Solomon also gave
‎a beautiful prayer at 1 Kings 3:6-10.
‎We won’t read that; it’s lengthy.
‎When we need help,
‎talk to Jehovah from your heart like Asa did.
‎And at the very end,
‎when Asa asked Jehovah to help him
‎because they had a million people against them
‎—they were warriors,
‎and he had a small group—
‎well, Jehovah blessed that prayer.
‎Asa drew close to Jehovah,
‎and Jehovah drew close to Asa
‎so much so that he defeated the Ethiopians
‎before Asa and before Judah,
‎and the Ethiopians fled.
‎They ran away.
‎Why?
‎Well, Asa drew close to Jehovah
‎—that’s why.
‎And, of course,
‎we want to draw close to Jehovah.
‎Another way that we draw close to Jehovah
‎is through meditation.
‎We want to think about what we pray.
‎They say a sheep
‎has four compartments in his stomach.
‎So it takes a long time,
‎sometimes two days or longer,
‎to digest his food.
‎Well, some things
‎that we take in, too, are hard to digest.
‎It takes awhile,
‎and we digest it basically through meditation.
‎We have to think about it over and over again.
‎Sometimes we even have to ask others:
‎“How do you feel about this?
‎ How did you understand it?
‎What did it do for you?”
‎and so forth.
‎And they’ll help us.
‎So prayer and meditation
‎—these are the two key things
‎that we will want to think about
‎as we endeavor to draw close to Jehovah.